# 1. Record architecture decisions

Date: 2024-08-16

## Context

Why were the initial product architecture decisions made?

## Decision

We will use Architecture Decision Records, as [described by Michael Nygard](http://thinkrelevance.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions).

a. Use Node.js/Express
b. Use Drizzle as ORM

## Consequences

See Michael Nygard's article, linked above. For a lightweight ADR toolset, see Nat Pryce's [adr-tools](https://github.com/npryce/adr-tools).

a. Node.js/Express, being the language and backend framework that I am most familiar with, will allow for the most rapid development. There are downsides relative to some other backend web frameworks though, which will need exploration to ensure are properly addressed. We will want to ensure that we have a consistent and easy to understand structure and use common patterns so that it's easy for another developer to jump into the project and get their bareings, as well as making the project easier to scale by relying on tried and true patterns and ways of working. Since express is "batteries excluded" it's very unopinionated which is great for freedom and flexibility but does allow you to shoot yourself in the foot as the project grows since there are no training wheels per se. 

b. Drizzle follows in this same philosophy of being as "bare metal" as possible. It's much closer to bare SQL than the big alternative that I am aware of, Prisma. It has a smaller community, but in thoery offers better performance and should have a smaller runtime overhead than Prisma.